>> David Khourshid: So what we're going
to do is we're just going to take,
let's do five minutes.
And so in these five minutes,
what I want you to do
is take a look at the page
in exercise libraries.
This is actually a pretty big,
it's a pretty big multi step form.
It is much bigger than the one that
we've done before where you could enter
a destination like Minneapolis, you could
go today, I actually went yesterday.
So number of passengers,
you could search the flights so
you see all of the available flights,
you could go back, you could select, then
you would search for a hotel, checkout
date, search for hotels, et cetera.
So it's really a giant
multistep flight form.
And then you could eventually confirm
your booking and then you go there.
So as you can imagine, we have a pretty,
pretty big reducer that's
helping us manage all of this.
And then we also have to manually
set up the context, which,
that's a lot of boilerplate.
So in these five minutes I just want you
to play around with either Xstate Store or
if you have another third party state
management library of choice like Zestand,
I want you to just get a feel for how you
would refactor this to use that third
party state management library rather than
relying on react context and use reducer.
All right, so let's talk about
using third party state management.
In this example, like I showed you,
we have a giant reducer and
this, you know,
comes with a lot of baggage.
We have a lot of, we have to use context,
we have to pass it down.
There's a bunch of boilerplate.
And let's say that in your team, you
decide that you want to abstract this into
a third party state management library
because you might have performance issues
or you might want to reduce the amounts
of code that you have to maintain.
And especially with raw hooks like
usereducer or use context, there's a lot
of room for developers to make their own
abstractions or their own patterns that
they just hope that the other developers
will be on board with, even though it's
usually the case that they're going to
end up disagreeing with each other.
And then you have multiple
abstractions in the same code base.
And this is another reason
why I think third party state
management libraries are great because
they provide an opinionated approach to,
to managing this kind of states.
So taking a look at our booking reducer,
I'm actually going to split the screen
here, but we, this is a common theme.
We are going to be doing the same thing
that we've done in other exercises where
we're doing things side by side instead
of doing a wholesale replacement of it.
So instead we're going to have
in this case a booking store.
And we are going to create a store.
We're going to have our context and our
context is going to be that initial state.
So it's going to be the same as
the booking state over here.
And then we have all of our
transitions that we could do.
So just to show you one, as an example,
we have flight search updated.
We get the context and we get the event.
Sorry, the event is going to have
a payload and that payload is going to be.
This is where making
explicit types really help.
So we see that the payload is over here.
There's a couple of
ways to bring this out.
We could either just have a type
flight search updated events and
just pull it out over there,
or we could derive that type.
So the way we would derive it.
So I'll just do it here.
So flight search or
flight search updated events payload.
But the way that we could derive it,
if you don't have this separated
out into a type, is you could.
This looks a little bit ugly,
but basically you could say this
would be a booking action and
you intersect that with type
flightsearch updated and
then you read the payload from that.
Again, a little bit ugly, but
that's why it's good to have just
some more explicit types with that.
And then you're going
to update it like this.
And then you could do this with
the rest of the actions you have,
just converting them over.
And again,
we're doing things side by side.
So we have a convenience use
booking hook that we could use.
And so this is where we could
actually just read in the store.
Yeah, read in the store context.
So we could say const
storecontext = useSelector.
Then we're going to be
reading the bookingstore and
reading in that context from there.
So this context, confusingly enough,
includes both the state and the dispatch.
So what we want to do is,
you know, we want to have the.
What do we wanna do?
Yeah, so we want to do our console log.
So we want to say console
log store context.
And we also want to compare
it to the context.state.
Again, I know that's a little bit
confusing, but the reason that we do this
is that when we're working in
an application where we're doing this
kind of refactor, we want to see that
everything is still pretty much the same.
So for example, if we are entering our
destination we want to see that the.
Oops, let's see what I did wrong here.
Store context.
Wait, that's, there we go.
Okay, it's giving me
a whole bunch of junk.
But we want to see that essentially both
types of states are exactly the same.
So in this case we have
CurrentStepFlightSearch,
CurrentStepFlightSearch.
And once we start doing
things in parallel,
we could see that the states match up.
And so once those states match up, that's
when we're going to be able to confidently
remove the old implementation and
replace it with a new implementation.
So I'm just going to show you,
for sake of time, the end result.
And so we no longer have any context,
just fold all.
So we no longer have any context because
we're just bringing that directly
in from the store.
And so you could see that,
you know, we have the step,
we're reading it directly from
the booking store over here and
it has everything that was in our,
our original reducer just like that.
So now instead, again,
instead of using context, we use selector,
grab it from that booking store,
which we could put in a separate file,
import that, and then we're reading
the state and only the state that we need.
That's the key difference here.
And then on things like handle submit, we
could trigger the search flights event and
pretty much everything else
remains exactly the same.
So we're using that pattern of
selecting from the store and
then dispatching or sending an event.
And so this is going to actually
be pretty much the same approach.
Whether you use Redux Toolkit or
Zustand or Xstate Store, you're replacing
that usecontext usereducerdance with
a third party state management library.